hi guys well I thought today I'd do a
little bit of a video on my stitching
pony here that I put together I had a
lot of interest in this cam mechanism
here so let me go ahead and get this out
here
okay ler guys wanted to know about the
hardware I used for the for the cam
mechanism this is just a probably two
and a half inch screw and this is just a
half inch piece of metal with a hole in
it and it's threaded with I think it's
quarter by quarter by 20 or something
like that threads this is actually off
of a baby bed I tore a crib apart and
this hardware was what was holding it
together so where you would get this
sort of thing I really don't know Lowe's
Home Improvement Center may have
something like this but that's what
actually works has the cam mechanism
inside of here now this is the cam and
all I really did to make this was I'm
not sure what the measurements are this
is about an inch wide here and this
comes in probably a half an inch from
the end down to this hole and from this
edge in is probably I don't know three
fourths of an inch or something like
that and I just rounded it over here in
this edge and applied some beeswax
that's why it's so shiny I put some
beeswax on here so that the cam nice and
easy on the on the pony
anyway this just goes in here the way I
made this cam I had some math questions
about that the way I made this cam was I
just drilled a 5/16 inch hole in here at
this end and then squared down off that
hole and
cut it out on my scroll saw in the shop
I really wish I'd have done a
construction video that's how I made the
shape here also I cut that out on my
scroll saw probably use a band saw or
even a jigsaw I suppose mm-hmm
this is made of walnut the first one I
made was made of cherry and it split out
right here it came when I was trying to
trying to use it so the walnuts been
holding up pretty well this is actually
mahogany I made these pieces out of
mahogany there again I measured down
here I think I don't know probably 8
inches or something like that
don't measured down probably 8 inches
from this end or maybe I measured up
this rod I'm I can't remember anymore
I wish I'd write the member men
measurements down but inside here when I
ripped these boards to the same width I
had a little piece a little strip
leftover so I sort of added those in
here to make a set of Jaws to grab what
I'm working on it seems to work really
well and it leaves you a little extra
room in here for your project to sit so
naturally of course you have your
project it's thicker and leather you're
only closing it that you know it allows
extra room in here so this is made of
cherry that's the same cherry wood that
I made the the the first came out of
which failed I was trying to cut some
slots in here to make this so that when
you pinch it together you know it
wouldn't spring apart in there you know
kind of give it a little relief whether
it really does anything I don't see it
moving any so it's pretty hard to say
whether that actually works or not I
noticed on Tandy's that they had put
some some kerfs in there so I just tried
to do the same thing and it probably
would work just as well you know whether
I did or didn't have that and then down
here I don't know if you can see or not
I not CH this in probably came halfway
through this boards probably half inch
thick right here and I notched in
probably quarter
to give that something to hold it
together when you're springing the ends
together seventh it doesn't fly apart on
you kind of helps to hold that and
there's no glue in this at all so it's
just held together by I think inch and a
half or inch and a quarter stainless
steel deck screws I broke one off here
so that's why there's two there nothing
fancy if I hadn't snapped that one off
there would only be two and then on the
bottom I scrolled it just screwed up
into the center that's the same deck
screws I just screwed up into the center
of the cherry block there and that's
pretty much it guys you guys have any
more questions about this thing feel
free to text me or - feel free to leave
a message or comment and I'll try to get
back to you with some answers um if
anyone is really interested a me another
look at that cam it's really nothing
special probably I don't know five and a
half six inches long I'm guessing this
is a in my drill bit set there's a drill
bit above this the half-inch size I
don't remember exactly what it is but
that's what I use so that this would you
know fit in there real easy and then
this just sits in here and it toggles
through you know through that slot that
you've made here a slot I brought down
actually a good bit below I probably not
to go quite that far because the thing
actually stops at 90 degrees so I
probably got the slot a good bit deeper
than I needed I just wanted to make sure
that I had room that's all that's all
that's for but it's been a pretty good
design and it's a whole lot easier than
a whole lot easier I think than messing
with a stupid wingnut on here that Tandy
has on there's you know not to take
anything away from Tandy but you know
they're pretty good company all these
holes in here and were either 5/16 or
somewhere close to 5/16 of an inch I
think and of course this thing how this
works is you know they just thread this
on here and when you get where you want
it depending on the thickness of your
project you really don't need it it's
not meant to clamp that leather you know
like a glue clamp or something like that
it's just meant to hold it while you're
doing your stitching now you sit your
legs over this part down here I'm sure
you know anything any you guys are
watching this already knew how to work
of stitching Pony but when you
reposition your work is when it really
comes in handy you just pop the km up
and you know and if it's not tight
enough you know you just kind of hold
your finger on this over here and you
can twist this till it gets you know
where you it's tight enough to hold
whatever you're trying to clamp in there
but it works really well then what I'm
not using I just loosen it up to the
point where I can flop it down here and
just kind of let that hang there takes
all the stress off of everything and
just to store it when I'm not using like
I said before if you guys have any any
questions just let me know leave me
leave a message or something down below
or a comment and I'll try to answer your
questions as best I can I just I never
throw anything away and that's where I
get my stuff so I save everything that
looks like it might actually be useful
surface for something sometimes so
alright guys well thanks for watching